# Project Overview This project demonstrates a robust data processing pipeline using Python with Pandas, integrated with a GitHub Actions CI/CD workflow for code quality, data conversion, and results publishing. It also includes a responsive front-end application built with Tailwind CSS. ## Project Structure - `index.html`: A single-file responsive web application demonstrating the project's frontend capabilities. - `execute.py`: A Python script responsible for processing `data.csv` and outputting structured JSON. - `data.xlsx`: The original Excel data file. - `data.csv`: The converted CSV version of `data.xlsx`, used by `execute.py`. - `.github/workflows/ci.yml`: GitHub Actions workflow for continuous integration and deployment. - `LICENSE`: The MIT License text. ## Features - **Data Processing**: `execute.py` efficiently processes tabular data using Pandas, performing aggregations and transformations, and outputting results in a standardized JSON format. - **Data Conversion**: The CI pipeline automatically converts `data.xlsx` into `data.csv` for optimized processing. - **Code Quality**: Integration with `ruff` ensures high code quality and adherence to best practices for Python scripts. - **Automated CI/CD**: A GitHub Actions workflow automates: - Code linting with `ruff`. - Data conversion from XLSX to CSV. - Execution of `execute.py`. - Publishing of the generated `result.json` to GitHub Pages, making the processed data easily accessible. - **Responsive UI**: The `index.html` provides a modern, responsive user interface built with Tailwind CSS, adapting seamlessly to various screen sizes. ## Setup and Usage ### Local Development 1. **Clone the repository**: ```bash git clone <repository-url> cd <repository-name> ``` 2. **Install dependencies**: Ensure you have Python 3.11+ installed. ```bash pip install pandas==2.3 ruff ``` 3. **Convert data.xlsx to data.csv**: ```bash python -c "import pandas as pd; pd.read_excel('data.xlsx').to_csv('data.csv', index=False)" ``` *(Note: This step is automated in CI, but you might need it for local testing if `data.csv` is not committed).* 4. **Run the processing script**: ```bash python execute.py > result.json ``` This will generate `result.json` in your current directory. 5. **View the HTML**: Open `index.html` in your web browser. ### GitHub Actions (CI/CD) The `.github/workflows/ci.yml` file configures a GitHub Actions workflow that triggers on every `push` to the repository. - It sets up a Python 3.11+ environment. - Installs `pandas==2.3` and `ruff`. - Runs `ruff check .` to lint the Python code. - Converts `data.xlsx` to `data.csv` within the CI environment. - Executes `execute.py` and redirects its output to `result.json`. - Publishes `result.json` to GitHub Pages. Once deployed, `result.json` will be accessible at `https://<YOUR_USERNAME>.github.io/<YOUR_REPOSITORY_NAME>/result.json`. ## `execute.py` Fix Details The original `execute.py` contained a non-trivial error where it attempted to read `data.xlsx` directly. Given that the CI pipeline converts `data.xlsx` to `data.csv` for efficient processing, the script was updated to read from `data.csv` instead. This ensures consistency with the CI pipeline and leverages the pre-processed CSV file. ```python # Before (conceptual error) # df = pd.read_excel('data.xlsx') # After (fix) # df = pd.read_csv('data.csv') ``` Additionally, a basic data aggregation logic has been implemented to demonstrate its functionality. The script now reads the CSV, groups by a conceptual 'Category' column, sums a 'Value' column, and outputs the result as a JSON array of objects. ## License This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the `LICENSE` file for details.